and they'll review things to this report
all right welcome everyone to the weekly
IPL D meeting
it's November 26 2008 in and let's see
what they have on the agenda so yeah
please put your name on the attendees
list if you haven't yet and we need a
note-taker
[Music]
and it will be enough any volunteers so
it's a great opportunity to learn about
how to take meeting minutes it's just a
small meeting so it's it's a good way to
learn it so and I really in favor of
like we cycle through every one so yeah
it's not the bird not a single person
anyone all right thanks I'm waiting and
Steve
so whoo yeah just put your name on the
crypt bed and um you will forget it out
thank you all right so what do we have
on the agenda yeah so first of all I
like to mention that we now have a
repository for the team management stuff
that's the one of the steps to get
basically dependent of the ipfs
organization kind of and being our own
project there's still some things
thinking to activist but probably all
the time and we'll get more money
pennant but I think there's no rush
surely and it contains all the details
about this meeting then I like to talk
about the Jas API specs
update so I just yet and again think in
the agenda
I'm just two issues where I proposed a
new API but it's more interesting for
the MJS people so perhaps it's
interesting for people as well basically
to see how we do
but it's really meant for a review from
the GS people all right then that's the
agenda items I have then we should
quickly go through yeah any updates and
you wanna add so I did already my update
so yeah so should we discuss anything so
now it's basically raise your hand and
say something if you have something to
say
yeah this isn't so much of an update
from last week but just coming into this
week I'm going to start landing a bunch
of UNIX FS B - um spec stuff there's a
bunch of different PRS for different
parts of it and just the sort of
skeleton will be landed now and I'm like
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
start on any open discussions that we
still have going will turn into their
own issues or their own PRS and will
actually reference them in the review
from spec so the spec will you know be
this sort of working draft rather than
you know whatever we completely agreed
to on this time just that we can start
to move forward and maybe you can start
to implement some of this stuff because
just the sort of basics that we have
there now it should work enough to
starting letting
all right any comments or questions for
Michael
No so anything else
so should we do a quick all on the stuff
that you plan to work on the next two
weeks roughly so I started so I ever
worked on so I said did the API draft I
plotted trend to F planted okay with
them a bit and implement them on the
current stuffs just to see if they are
really like sound or if they actually
work on not only look good of paper and
it's also connected to kind of graph C
because it's kind of is the high level
API is it then also graph simple to use
all right Mike Laurie told us so
what else let's go on with and steam in
for example what will you be working on
next week's all right this is absolutely
people trying to use CSS garetty's I'm
trying to find link to the issues you
have anything to or any comments for
that well what didn't what do we end up
what did you guys end up deciding on for
for that is it they're gonna be sort of
the 19 LD dependency there hasn't been a
decision I was hoping to get one at the
meeting but going back to the issue it
looks like this know what the discussion
happening yeah so the issue is now in
know basically ideas who want to use C
IDs as PR IDs because keys are content
and this allows us to like type or
basically have typed pointers to PRI t's
instead of like just assuming that our
protobuf or that there's sufficient
protobuf but yeah so if you people do a
lot of comments from the I feel a little
bit besides not much from these high
because obvious path though they like
one thought that may help push this
forward is like this would happen
liability where both the um
ideas it could move see IDs from the
ability org to the multi for mentored
and basically say well like see IDs are
a multi-format there are
like a strong dependency of IPL d in
practice this makes absolutely no
difference it's still like a core
component of IPL d this just might make
messaging simpler I don't know is there
a is there a future meeting or if like
is this gonna be an async thing or is
there any next steps for that we should
be learned I please like if you have it
to say on that issue I just posted chime
in
otherwise there already been a sync
meeting and I thought we had a
conclusion there and turn that we didn't
so there will be more discussion and
hope if we can get people on the image
all right things for the update
Eric do you have any updates or like
what you were broke on sure my quick
update is and working on go IPL d-prime
still I recently gave it's immutable
arrays and so now I'm starting to write
some tests that go like make an IPL de
Graaff out of the mutable interface and
then go test that it can get stuff back
out of it it's still very primitive but
I hope I'm going in the right direction
with this and I guess I have kind of a
question coming out of how I made rating
on this which is if we have any things
in mind which will consume this in the
near future we have I actually don't
know how many pieces of code we have in
the NGO world that are using that field
the interfaces I know some of it's
getting used in the file coin yeah I
don't know I kind of want to like have
something to drag me in the right
direction I'm not exactly sure how it is
five points even though all over the
place I think this is kind of using them
but not really nerdy ematic wait is it
still like and this half protobuf world
air land yeah unikz of us to like you
should definitely use that as a
motivation for like how should we
structure things now but again also
powerclean yeah so maybe I should start
a UNIX fSV too
go codebase I don't think there is one
yet and then try to use that as a
dragging force I know felt like a lot
but like I kind of also don't want to
like I would like to develop this on a
smaller more sidelined project for a
while first before going back over there
that's it for me all right
hey didn't you do what do you wanna add
something or like I'm yeah so uh not for
any questioning yes yeah I'm hanging
around muscle because of some of the
throw the graph synchronization stuff
that are done or that I'm working on for
you know version graphs there's a
there's an ongoing discussion now about
having these you know version dag
version DAGs that they got started by
people of all the people with DD C and
also with the eye GIS project I'm just
trying to see how these things all fit
together I think the comments about us
not using I killed the interfaces on the
ghost side in quite either enough for
her in the right idiomatic way
definitely speaks to me because I was
trying to figure out how I was gonna
write the own my own like graph
structure stuff internally and I wasn't
really sure where to go or what was what
was like implement now versus implement
interfaces later so I think I have some
guidance on that or direction
I'm not whether in the form of a readme
on in the IP LD repo or something could
be could be helpful or just talking
about it and making it making it clear
because we use graphs for all sorts or
link data for all sorts of things but
which things are IP LD in which things
are not IP LD
listen to LinkedIn a world I think is um
still still up for discussion well
anything linked by CID is is essentially
IP LD it's sort of like the general sort
of overview and I mean are you are you
looking for like guidance of how to
build graphs generally or specific like
in your language like which which kind
of tools to use or right now I have
another thing the idea is just I'm gonna
have a bunch of I want with the easiest
possible thing which is the graphs are
represented internally but on the wire
all I'd on the wire I just sort of send
updates and say here's the previous node
here's my parent here's my child right
and then those get sent over the wire
and interpreted I didn't I I figure
there must be something going on but I
decided to just make a protobuf that did
that which feels like the wrong
direction
and and maybe that I'm not looking in
the right places sorry on you my god
yeah I mean the big thing would be to
you see Boren's that have put up up
there I mean that was a little bit
cleaner and important that the new
direction that's kind of the primary
thing but I think about in terms of how
you're structuring the data it's
probably relatively similar the only
thing that I would ask is like
how are you deciding what to send over
the wire other than just a new root node
because like do you actually know the
state that the other client has and so
you're just funding at the changes or
you just sending it the new version of
the minute ask for the changes yeah so
I'm not um the graphs aren't static
right the idea is I'm just sending you
you know I I wish to add a note to this
I wished I had a note under this parent
and then there's a whole the protocol
that right now is the dump protocols you
just send all the notes right but
eventually a more sophisticated protocol
of saying which knows do I actually need
to send you because we have two
different versions of this graph how do
we make sure we end up with the same one
assuming that the answer to merge is
always create a new branch right okay
yeah so um so we have a new replication
repository that's that I peeled these
flash replication if you could just
write up sort of like this use cases
like what you're trying to send around
and what the merges look like then we
can discuss the right replication
strategy and document sure yeah and also
you see 410 can do
do we pay into that yeah I have like
three questions or points is it no I
cannot sure it right now well the right
arm to like just like open-ended points
for us to discuss or is still updates
happening okay I was just go ahead so I
have like three points which first one
like I'm a little bit surprised or
increased I don't really understand like
why you need fast v2 is kind of like
dragging like I remember that it was
like a huge discussion on on the spec
then Michael like over we can even
within the prototype of it and I don't
know right now like why like there's
like three people assigned to UNIX it
has to be - like drafting this back in
multiple card sheets and I think the
conversation is not happening and
because that this was happening like it
is just getting stuck then the the other
two things and I was just like oh I'd
the tree is Oh Jess when using I peel
the we do ipfs right now it's still
parabolic I quickly not like essentially
we cannot write because the way that
kelp sterilizes things into HTTP is that
makes everything JSON and so I kind of
like messes up with like buffers and so
on and so there are there were multiple
discussions multiple proposals I count
of fixes and I think I know likely to
follow up on that I don't know if anyone
is that kind of like paying attention or
just like following that discussion and
the last but not the least is I peeled
the Year like two years ago at a huge
community like right like when when the
idea that I feel that you were like
bubbling up there are multiple people
coming up with different proposals and
like different projects like economic
evaluating and I was well for like this
new group to kind of like take a moment
to kind of like just like go through
those old issues and I kept checking or
like all those people's ideas because we
might be like touching some of those
people's ideas again or I catching some
of the projects that got i widen again
and so it'd be very helpful to also like
on board all of those very excited
contributors to the conversation because
they might not be aware that this
happening so Michael Michael go ahead
maybe I should have separated you're
going also on your last point with the
people that were around before I saw
that you posted an issue about the note
they were appealed a related is that
kind of a start to sort of look through
those people and yeah they will lead you
to all the usernames and all the
conversations okay like a lot of the
activity happened there and also on the
ipfs specs repo I can also like fetch
those and I just highlights from that
issues of the about re pointers okay
okay perfect and then the last point so
you were asking sort of like what is the
holdup on unix sp2 or why are so many
people assigned to it I'm not entirely
sure that I understand all the context
they're basically like the spec was
stalled out for a while and there were a
lot of unanswered questions and then we
sort of rebooted it a little bit and
there are still some unanswered threads
like see threads we have resolution on
about really particular points but I
think that we're ready to land something
that we can start implementing and then
eventually worry about some of those
other issues like later on for instance
there's like a thread about right now it
says like when you're encoding the chunk
data it's always a link to the binary
blob you can't do it in line and there's
like an ask for smaller files can we
just inline it and if we don't care
about deduplication can we just inline
it and so there's like a thread about
that that might change this back so
we'll just note that thread and move on
and if we if we like if we allow that in
the future then like well note will note
it and everybody can sort of update
their implementations as possible
awesome awesome awesome
okay the so just like to provide a
context that I have very simple it's
like I see that that is like two results
and I feel the okrs
which one is you another one is Eric and
then there's another key result on the
Jessica fest okay ours which is Alex
which also says it like he's going to
work on blending UNIX FS v zu and so
yeah like I do never create a way to
kind of like page in like the status
like what was the progress so far and it
seemed like it wasn't clear to us
because there's like multiple people
there like
were assigned as owning like winning
this thing yeah yeah I mean some of it
is like the implementations that come
off of the spec obviously I I'm not sure
exactly what Eric's okay ours are for
UNIX 52 I don't have it in front of me
but yeah um oh and then there was one
last point oh yeah the last point is
that we are currently sort of pointing
to a hampton plantation that is not
drafted and so this spec will be in
front of that and look we're basically
pointing to an implementation of it that
is used in POW coin and go that's like
the only reference that we have for that
so it will be like a spec that points to
a non-existent set so that'll be a
little bit problematic in the future I
think especially for the jail got it got
it
okay cool thank you yeah +12 that that
ham thing I think that that creates a
lot of fear for me when I'm avert
whenever I'm looking at things in this
area we haven't figured out how to
specify that and I'm not entirely sure
we figured out how to leave the right
shaped hole in the specification for
either it's just was really scary
still I think over that Jeremy had a
newer camp I don't know if the fit of it
is no yeah there's a champ Tim floating
out there somewhere
yeah I'm Steven using your hand up
earlier to some zoo one of davits points
I guess so you wouldn't like to say
something everybody about that now okay
it was perhaps like it was at the moment
we were talking about that go I give as
sense the I peel these stuff over the
wire and choice on stuff yeah that
okay so part of that is an API issue
where ideally we just be sending the
like serialize block and we actually
have an API percentage zero as lossless
it's kind of semi broken for other
reasons part of it is also again the
fact that we did try to come up with
solutions head and it stalled because
but there was a time period of time we
said okay finally Jason visible support
binary and now we've gone back and
incited it well actually maybe Jason
will support binary so we have to like
actually just something someone needs to
own it and change this back and it's not
that difficult but we need to people get
people to agree on it wait a second I'm
a little bit confused by that so yes we
are gonna have Dec JSON support binary
but now yeah but but that doesn't mean
that like if you have a seaborne node it
will have a Jason representation in that
format right like rather Seabourn know
do you still want to send around the
binary block but it means like if we
have a seaboard node that keeps it like
cards it constrains itself to like art
one of our standard sorry the ability
data model then it should be converted
Jason back right no so no well so we can
we specifically drop that so like so so
there is no canonical representation
anymore to change between formats you
have to do that yourself and that was
the satisfy ones requirements around
precision law on the JavaScript side
with different integer types
oh okay yeah so so there there is no
canonical form at anymore to be pushing
a
so we definitely need to send the binary
blob and if we're we're sending de JSON
that will happen to be valediction but
yeah like yeah we need to figure out
just how that how to treat these it's
just big binary blobs okay did we like
did I think the solution there really is
so we have this block if you guys
attends around the blocks but doesn't
get resolution stuff like that and it's
kind of annoying you could be kind of
nice to just modify the current die get
the I to send raw data I wonder if we
could add an encoding cuz like the way
we currently do this encoding things to
say well like encode it using JSON but
we really mean it they kind of um
keeping it's like the encoding is
listless if your response encoding but
we're actually doing is telling to
convert and I feel the object to
something else
which is why it doesn't make that much
sense in the first place I guess well
it's have to sit down and talk to the
JSP boy like you figure out the right
command structure for that because I
think the current documents are kind of
like broken yep yeah yeah so um
typically so this is with an HTTP API
right yeah this is pretty attractive
stuff but yeah so so typically the
solution here is to like take any
metadata and shove it into the headers
and then lobbying to just be the binary
I forget the fact that so we called HTTP
API it's not HTTP it's kind of a weird
like RPC api over HTTP we have very
specific semantics you can't put things
in the headers okay but can you send
binary blobs
you can't the current the current API
expects you to send like it's actually a
bit problematic because errors are
indistinguishable from the parasites to
use be insignificant non errors
now it's slightly less bad but we
haven't like charged compatibility
reasons the old clients still like can
still make very still confused errors
and not errors whatever yeah do you have
a comment yeah we're coming to saying
the comments like so this is like one of
the interface issues that I was trying
to bring up earlier the conversation has
been going for two years now and and and
so it basically it stumbles upon
that's like he's having when he says
it's an EVP that sounds really HTTP API
and I go just like seized HTTP sockets
as I can t see P socket and I realized
everything to Jason I just like sends it
true and you know what that means like
it just like if there is a buffer or any
special like pipe like you just just
compares it to Jason and just like it's
cruising up and Ike doesn't give any
other information for that probe of we
have been able to survive with that
because we know the schema over that go
robot
so we would always cast the data key to
like a buffer and like it would work
right like but like we see one we don't
excuse anymore so we cannot like yes
into like there was like a lot of like
back shedding but like there's like one
common until I grip this and this is
like as far as I managed to get on the
last bike shed or I'll have to tell the
HTTP API and essentially it's kind of
like I think what am I going to tell
about like just put it information on
the headers or on the argument that says
hey like I want these objects and please
encoded into this format so that I know
how to decide why's it so that I can
then they say why's it locally if you
have a taxi board nailed it has like
whatever inside if you give me that
wrong thing then I condition-wise it
locally it's kind of like last mile
resolve or that's like the term we use
at a time and they're like that
preserves the the types and like yeah
like it's kind of like weird that like
sometimes you will get the wrong route
sometimes you will get the property
there actually I think there's like some
really like still some rough edges to
polish but it's something that like
implemented today will enable Jess ipfs
API so the clients could not be first to
use a API today which they can cook it
could be consider breaking dad get
simply because it's already said broken
or would that not be a solution like if
it could do that then we can always wrap
it in adjacent object and like have a
base64 encoded field with whatever size
it has the data and then another one
that has like the Eid prefix so that
would give us all the information we
need
and it was very consistent um the other
idea this is to use the Bach if you're
either force of walk API as far as I
know can't do resolution so you know
like the the thirty hack is using the
blocking P I am doing the resolving
locally but it means like every time you
jump from one node to another node
they're doing an HTP request that's no
[Music]
sorry
the first part which is like could we
just like to break the dad get the I
basically redefine it entirely okay
yeah depends on like what it means to me
you find it
I mean to find it to return a JSON
object that has a data field and like a
CID prefix field and the data field is
just encoded so it's kind of like it's
like another way to do what what is on
that proposal so I recommend everyone
just going to the trend there's a lot of
context there but I yeah like what's
like just like check-in and I even if
the decision is let's close the issue
inside from scratch that's fine but like
let's make sure - I'd like some some
continuation area okay we are almost out
of time or we're out of time
I just want to add is I currently we say
if we talk about the HTTP API we talk
about its check the responses are JSON
encoding but the big question for me is
that doesn't always need to be chased on
just like a Stephen basically says is we
could just as he send over C Bohr and
for example as to be reasonable binary
let's say is he born and we could even
do the resolving in in C board so it
basically get a spring bag but it's
still super annoyed estiven so actually
we could send back whatever we want we
have can someone mean I'm gonna be back
thank you sorry sorry to come straight
so we actually have an encoding
parameter so you can say like in code
using part about the code using c p-- or
whatever but home assembly and music i
need to know the encoding of the thing
I'm expecting to actually tell it like
not
like change it at all yeah so my idea
was actually just just used Jason
because it'll of send back other data
problems we just send back raw data we
can't send back additional metadata
easily we could put in the headers that
the current inspector sorry
our current HT API spec allow for that
but if we said back an actual like Jason
object with like some field that just
had the raw object encoded in it and it
would work there may be other ways of
doing this type just don't know yeah
it's basically like those odd details I
would say so that's like that's totally
fine as well and make sense to have
basically drift in a JSON object and
then we'd be hundreds of space sleep
anyway all right um is there anything
else because to be already running out
of time I mean it's over I have one last
ask yeah I'll make it quick you asked
why stuff slow and it seems to me we
don't actually have a ton of people who
are full-time on IP LD and it would be
really nice to get more
it's like according to the capacity
planner anyway it's Michael Volker me
and that's it and Michael is part-time
and despite that doing an awesome job of
like trying to push our specs through
but that's one of each of us for the two
languages here so we're not even like we
aren't you and i evoke are super
equipped to be code reviewing each other
so if we both had one more human on each
of the language sighs I feel like it
would make us go way faster
so I please do you drag me into code
abuse because I'd be trying to get
myself dragged back to I feel deal and
you're a series of blanks on the
capacity letter so yeah well that's why
they're blank because I try to get
myself dragged back but at the moment
I've been dragging on directions I think
a key thing here is better coordination
that we notice the same thing on the go
Express team we're like if we're all at
coordinating talking a lot like stuff
just gets done it happens but whatever
it's kind of off in their old world it
can be very hard to like make progress
because you know don't know what's
happening it's also scheduled like a
spec review meeting period to try to
make it synchronous a little more forced
maybe I don't know maybe also also just
like like writing up specs and the
writing things up is always good and if
people don't read it like a bug them
incessantly over I receipt actually like
we didn't look at it well we can also
use this meeting to unblock back issues
like if we're really stuck and also on
the code review side I do review the JSF
from hooker yeah yeah yeah that don't
don't trust me to review any go code
that would be back straining us in the
next quarter if he's willing to and then
I don't know if we're hiring or what for
these so another like the capacity
planner is just exactly for that for
planning so if you feel that like the
team is understaffed like definitely
like add humans so that you can like say
well we need more people to take along
these things the other thing is I could
remember I could this is like a very
large community like we have like even
like they'll wait at the LV and so on
was people that were even like more
overbooked like we had way less capacity
and we have like an amazing community of
contributors contributing to this crash
and doing the research participating on
these trends and so that's why quick why
also encourage it oh yeah I check you
know I'm checking with all these people
shaking all these threads from the past
because we might have now solved
problems that when I waited in the past
that now would encourage people to like
come back and continue the conversation
and so yeah I guess an issue and I
killed his like I be if I just like
points to the notes I actually spent
some time on that weekend just like
labeling I peel the issues on ipfs slash
note so that back it's easy to find and
then I'm also doing that for the ipfs
slash X which has a bunch of IP OD
things so that like like you can find it
easily and yeah like I'm sure you'll
find a lot of new ideas and and meet new
faces when you go through those
you
I yeah I will okay any other things
right then thanks for joining the
meeting we will talk again in two weeks
yes thanks for time and see you then
goodbye